WIP - Service plugins (#369)
cesium-ml/baselayer: doc/extending.md

```
./baselayer/tools/fill_conf_values.py --config="config.yaml" static/js/component.jsx.template
```

## Adding extrernal services

> If you want to add external services to your application,

Author: I think we should explain what *is* an external service before saying how to add one. Explaining the concept, etc.

Reviewer: :+1: I can't see higher up in that file, but we should check that the concept of a *service* is well defined. Also make very clear that external services are identical to services, they just live in remote repos.

you can do so by adding them to the `config.yaml` file under the

> `services.external` key. Each service should have a unique name and a set of parameters that define how to connect to it. For example:

Author: I don't think there are any parameters about how to "connect" to it, the wording could be a bit confusing given that there are actually networking concerns that are separate from that. I would rephrase it to make it clear that the config here let's baselayer pull the external service from a separate github repo. Also would be good to mention the versioning (branch+sha or version), which is omitted at the moment

```
services:
  external:
    my_service:
        url: "https://github.com/my_service.git"
        branch: main
        sha: specific_commit_sha
        params: {}
    another_service:
        url: "https://github.com/another_service.git"
        version: v0.1.0
        params: {}
```

Your script will then run when the application starts.

This allows you to easily integrate external services into your

> application without hardcoding configuration values in your codebase.

Author: I don't understand that sentence, I don't think the big advantage is to avoid hardcoding configs, it's that you don't need to fork and diverge from the main repo rather, so this is misleading. With the external services we can extend on the application without changing the application itself

```
./baselayer/tools/fill_conf_values.py --config="config.yaml" static/js/component.jsx.template
```

## Adding external services

External services are microservices that you can pull from GitHub and run as part of your application. This is useful for integrating third-party services or custom scripts.

If you want to add external services to your application,
you can do so by adding them to the `config.yaml` file under the `services.external` key. This allows baselayer to pull the external service from a GitHub repository.

The configuration in the `config.yaml` file should look like this:

```
services:
  external:
    my_service:
        url: "https://github.com/my_service.git"
        branch: main
        sha: specific_commit_sha
        params: {}
    another_service:
        url: "https://github.com/another_service.git"
        version: v0.1.0

>         params: {}

Author: As an example of how to add `params` (and to show it's optional), maybe it would make sense to have the first microservice not specify it, and the second one specify it but not empty (with some actual keys)?

```

> You must provide the `url` of the GitHub repository. To target a specific version of the service, you can optionally include both the `branch` and `sha`, or use the `version` field to refer to a particular release. Additional configuration options can be passed through the `params` dictionary, which the service may use during setup.

Author: `you can optionally include` doesn't seem correct. You HAVE to provide a branch+sha OR a version to add an external service, right?

> You must provide the `url` of the GitHub repository. To target a specific version of the service, you can optionally include both the `branch` and `sha`, or use the `version` field to refer to a particular release. Additional configuration options can be passed through the `params` dictionary, which the service may use during setup.

Author: `Additional configuration options can be passed through the `params` dictionary, which the service may use during setup.` I mean these are just keys the service may use, idk if it's necessarily at `setup` time.

> You must provide the `url` of the GitHub repository. To target a specific version of the service, you can optionally include both the `branch` and `sha`, or use the `version` field to refer to a particular release. Additional configuration options can be passed through the `params` dictionary, which the service may use during setup.

Author: Maybe here is where it's good to mention:
- external services should provide a `main.py`, or if there entry point is different they have to provide a `supervisord.conf` (which we otherwise auto generate to point to main.py
- that they can provide a pyproject.toml file that contains the service's name (which is the same name that should be used in the config), and a `tool.X` section where `X` is the name of the application that is built on top of baselayer. And, that this section should include a `version` if specified, which is a version requirement, to make sure they only are registered and run with versions of `X` that they support.
- that they can provide a `config.yaml.defaults` that contain a default configuration for the service, useful for external services that have default parameters (in `params:`), which also acts as an example of how to add the external service to an application.

> The external service will then be initialized and registered in supervisor, alongside other services, provided it is correctly configured and compatible with the application.

Author: See for example here you talk about "compatibility" but it's never defined before, hence my previous comment

```
./baselayer/tools/fill_conf_values.py --config="config.yaml" static/js/component.jsx.template
```

## Adding external services

External services are microservices that you can pull from GitHub and run as part of your application. This is useful for integrating third-party services or custom scripts.

If you want to add external services to your application,
you can do so by adding them to the `config.yaml` file under the `services.external` key. This allows baselayer to pull the external service from a GitHub repository.

> The configuration in the `config.yaml` file should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration in the `config.yaml` file would look like this:
```

```
services:
  external:
    my_service:
        url: "https://github.com/my_service.git"
        branch: main
        sha: specific_commit_sha
    another_service:
        url: "https://github.com/another_service.git"
        version: v0.1.0
        params:
            endpoint: "https://api.example.com"
```

You must provide the `url` of the GitHub repository, as well as a version of the service. To specify the version, you are required to either:

- Provide both the `branch` and `sha`,
  **or**
- Use the `version` field to reference a specific release.

Additional configuration options can be passed through the `params` dictionary, which the service uses.

> The external service will then be initialized and registered in `supervisor` alongside other services, provided it is correctly configured and compatible with the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The external service will then be started and managed by `supervisord` alongside other services.
```

> Compatibility can be enforced via version constraints declared in the service’s optional pyproject.toml. See [External Service Requirements](#external-service-requirements) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### External Service Requirements

To work correctly with the application, external services should follow these conventions:

#### Entry Point

> - The service should include a `main.py` file as its entry point. In that case, providing a `supervisor.conf` can be omitted and will be auto-generated, referring to `main.py`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The service should include a `main.py` file as its entry point.
```

Reviewer: I think just force this as a default requirement, with a note that you *can* override it by specifying `supervisord.conf` if you really want to.

- If the entry point differs, a `supervisord.conf` must be provided in the repository, pointing to the correct entry point.

#### Project Metadata and Compatibility

> External services may include a `pyproject.toml` file to provide metadata and compatibility information. This is especially important when multiple applications (or versions) are built on top of Baselayer.

Reviewer: What does this mean: "especially important when multiple applications (or versions) are built on top of Baselayer"?

In this file:

- The name of the service must be specified, matching the external service name in `config.yaml`.

- It should define a [tool.`<application-name>`] section, where `<application-name>` is the name of the application you are adding the external microservice to. This section may include a `version` field to declare which versions of the application the service is compatible with. If the version requirement is not met, the external service will not be registered.

For example, an external service's `pyproject.toml` may look like:

> ```toml

Reviewer: Show a template example first, then discuss all possible keys. You can choose whether or not to include those keys in the template.

[tool.compatibility]
compatible-with = [
  { name = "skyportal", version = ">=1.4.0" }
]
```

- The name of the service must be specified, matching the external service name in `config.yaml`.

- It should define a [tool.compatibility] section including a `compatible-with` field. This field would specify which applications (and versions) the service is compatible with. If the version requirement is not met, the external service will not be registered.

#### Default Configuration

A `config.yaml.defaults` file can be provided to set service configuration defaults.
These values can be overridden in the app's `config.yaml` under the `services.external.<name-of-this-service>.config` keys:

```yaml
services:
  external:
    my_service:

>       version: v0.1.0

Author: No but that's the version to pull the plugin. You can specify a version (that's a tagged version on git), OR a sha.

> [tool.myapp]

Reviewer: Probably better to specify this as something like:

```
compatible-with = [...]
```

or similar, instead of requiring a key named after a package.

> A `config.yaml.defaults` file can be provided, which is helpful if the service needs to be configured and expects parameters to be specified in `config.yaml`. It also serves as an example of how to integrate the service into an application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `config.yaml.defaults` file can be provided to set service configuration defaults.
These values can be overridden in the app's `config.yaml` under the `services.external.<name-of-this-service>.config` keys:
```

Why params and not config?
